OSDOCS-6703: Documented the minimum required vCenter privileges by OC… (#68470)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-vsphere-installer-infra-requirements.adoc

// * installing/installing_vsphere/ipi/ipi-vsphere-installation-reqs.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/upi/upi-vsphere-installation-reqs.adoc

> 

Reviewer: I think it is missing the mod docs content type field, ID, and module title: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#module-file-metadata

Reviewer: Sorry, it's not missing the ID - I see it below, but the title needs to be a Level 1 heading.

`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.DeployTemplate`

|vSphere vCenter Datacenter

> |If the installation program creates the virtual machine folder. For user-provisioned infrastructure, `VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create` and `VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete` privileges are optional if your cluster does not use the Machine API. See the Minimum permissions for the Machine API table. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|If the installation program creates the virtual machine folder. For user-provisioned infrastructure, `VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create` and `VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete` privileges are optional if your cluster does not use the Machine API. See the "Minimum permissions for the Machine API" table. 
```
Elsewhere in table, quotes are used in this reference for this table so I would be consistent.

For more information about creating an account with only the required privileges, see link:https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/com.vmware.vsphere.security.doc/GUID-5372F580-5C23-4E9C-8A4E-EF1B4DD9033E.html[vSphere Permissions and User Management Tasks] in the vSphere documentation.

[discrete]
[id="installation-vsphere-installer-infra--minimum-requirements_{context}"]
== Minimum required vCenter account privileges

> After you create a custom role and assign privileges to it, you can create permissions by selecting specific vSphere objects and then assign the custom role to a user or group for each object. Depending on the installation stage, you might need to restrict access to certain vSphere objects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create a custom role and assign privileges to it, you can create permissions by selecting specific vSphere objects and then assigning the custom role to a user or group for each object. Depending on the installation stage, you might need to restrict access to certain vSphere objects. 
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you create a custom role and you do not assign privileges to it, the vSphere Server by default assigns a `Read Only` role to the custom role.
====

Consider creating a custom role when an account with global administrative privileges does not meet your needs. By using a custom role, you can choose to meet the minimum set of privileges necessary for {product-title} cluster installation. 

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Installing an {product-title} cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the section named _"Required vCenter account privileges"_. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges. Red Hat does not support an environment that is configured to meet a minimum set of permissions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing an {product-title} cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges. Red Hat does not support an environment that is configured to meet a minimum set of permissions. 
```

====

> Propogating a minimum set of permissions to specific vSphere objects, such as `vSphere vCenter Resource Pool`, is situational based. For more details about these situations, see the proceeding tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Propagating a minimum set of permissions to specific vSphere objects, such as `vSphere vCenter Resource Pool`, is situationally based. For more details about these situations, see the preceding tables.
```

For more information about creating an account with only the required privileges, see link:https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/com.vmware.vsphere.security.doc/GUID-5372F580-5C23-4E9C-8A4E-EF1B4DD9033E.html[vSphere Permissions and User Management Tasks] in the vSphere documentation.

[discrete]

> [id="installation-vsphere-installer-infra--minimum-requirements_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: Is this ID correct? The `--` in the middle seems unintentional.

Author: Fixed. I spotted this when changing the xref.

== Minimum required vCenter account privileges

After you create a custom role and assign privileges to it, you can create permissions by selecting specific vSphere objects and then assigning the custom role to a user or group for each object. 

Before you create permissions or request for the creation of permissions for a vSphere object, determine what minimum permissions apply to the vSphere object. By doing this task, you can ensure a basic interaction exists between a vSphere object and {product-title} architecture. 

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you create a custom role and you do not assign privileges to it, the vSphere Server by default assigns a `Read Only` role to the custom role. Note that for the cloud provider API, the custom role only needs to inherit the privileges of the `Read Only` role.
====

> Consider creating a custom role when an account with global administrative privileges does not meet your needs. Also consider that depending on the installation stage, you might need to restrict access to certain vSphere objects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consider creating a custom role when an account with global administrative privileges does not meet your needs.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Red Hat supports only an account that is configured with the required privileges. Installing an {product-title} cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges. 

Reviewer 2: This phrasing is sitting oddly with me. I think changing "supports only" to "only supports" would help, but here's another suggestion to take or leave:
```suggestion
Accounts that are not configured with the required privileges are unsupported. Installing an {product-title} cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges. 
```

Author: Good suggestion. I was trying to remove much passive voice as possible but I was wrestling with the word "only"!

Reviewer 2: I think this (<thing> is unsupported) is one of the times when passive voice makes more sense, somehow. But I appreciate your effort to avoid it :)

> Installing an {product-title} cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges. Red Hat does not support an environment that is configured to meet a minimum set of permissions. 

Reviewer 3: Installing an {product-title} cluster in a vCenter is tested against a full list of privileges as described in the "Required vCenter account privileges" section. By adhering to the full list of privileges, you can reduce the possibility of unexpected behaviors that might occur when creating a custom role with a restricted set of privileges. Red Hat does not support an environment that is configured to meet a minimum set of permissions. 

maybe reword `Red Hat does not support an environment that is configured to meet a minimum set of permissions. ` to `Only an account configured with the required privileges is supported. `

Author: Thanks. Updated.

Reviewer 4: That sounds reasonable.

For more information about creating an account with only the required privileges, see link:https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/com.vmware.vsphere.security.doc/GUID-5372F580-5C23-4E9C-8A4E-EF1B4DD9033E.html[vSphere Permissions and User Management Tasks] in the vSphere documentation.

[discrete]
[id="installation-vsphere-installer-infra--minimum-requirements_{context}"]
== Minimum required vCenter account privileges

> You can create a custom role with privilege sets that propogate a minimum set of permissions to each vSphere object. Depending on the installation stage, you might need to restrict access to certain vSphere objects. 

Author: A user can create a custom role through the vCenter Client or is some sort of CLI option available?

https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/8.0/vsphere-security/GUID-18071E9A-EED1-4968-8D51-E0B4F526FDA3.html

Author: I see a note in this link that states "When you add a custom role and do not assign any privileges to it, the role is created as a Read Only", so I should state this, because the cloud provider minimum privileges is based around this default"?

Author: Thanls, @rvanderp3 . Updated. I'll move the PR to the next review cycle.

|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Network.Assign`
`Read Only`

|Virtual Machine Folder
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`InventoryService.Tagging.ObjectAttachable`
`Read Only`
`Resource.AssignVMToPool`
`VApp.Import`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddExistingDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddNewDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddRemoveDevice`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AdvancedConfig`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Annotation`
`VirtualMachine.Config.CPUCount`
`VirtualMachine.Config.DiskExtend`
`VirtualMachine.Config.DiskLease`
`VirtualMachine.Config.EditDevice`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Memory`
`VirtualMachine.Config.RemoveDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Rename`
`VirtualMachine.Config.ResetGuestInfo`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Resource`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Settings`
`VirtualMachine.Config.UpgradeVirtualHardware`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.GuestControl`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOff`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOn`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.Reset`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.CreateFromExisting`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.Clone`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.MarkAsTemplate`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.DeployTemplate`

|vSphere vCenter Datacenter

> |If the installation program creates the virtual machine folder. For UPI, VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create and VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete privileges are optional if your cluster does not use the Machine API.

Author: UPI has no relevance here?

|
[%hardbreaks]
`InventoryService.Tagging.ObjectAttachable`
`Resource.AssignVMToPool`
`Read Only`
`VApp.Import`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddExistingDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddNewDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddRemoveDevice`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AdvancedConfig`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Annotation`
`VirtualMachine.Config.CPUCount`
`VirtualMachine.Config.DiskExtend`
`VirtualMachine.Config.DiskLease`
`VirtualMachine.Config.EditDevice`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Memory`
`VirtualMachine.Config.RemoveDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Rename`
`VirtualMachine.Config.ResetGuestInfo`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Resource`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Settings`
`VirtualMachine.Config.UpgradeVirtualHardware`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.GuestControl`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOff`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOn`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.Reset`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.CreateFromExisting`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.Clone`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.DeployTemplate`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.MarkAsTemplate`
`Folder.Create`
`Folder.Delete`
|===
====

> .Minimum permissions for post-installation management of components

Author: Post installation here applies to IPI and UPI?

Reviewer 3: yes

`StorageProfile.View`

|vSphere vCenter Cluster
|If you intend to create VMs in the cluster root
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Host.Config.Storage`
`Resource.AssignVMToPool`
`Read Only`

|vSphere vCenter Resource Pool
|If you provide an existing resource pool in the `install-config.yaml` file
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Host.Config.Storage`
`Read Only`

|vSphere Datastore
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Datastore.AllocateSpace`
`Datastore.Browse`
`Datastore.FileManagement`
`Read Only`
`InventoryService.Tagging.ObjectAttachable`

|vSphere Port Group
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Network.Assign`
`Read Only`

|Virtual Machine Folder
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Read Only`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddExistingDisk`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddRemoveDevice`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AdvancedConfig`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Annotation`
`VirtualMachine.Config.CPUCount`
`VirtualMachine.Config.DiskExtend`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Memory`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Settings`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOff`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOn`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.CreateFromExisting`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.Clone`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.DeployTemplate`

|vSphere vCenter Datacenter

> |If the installation program creates the virtual machine folder. For UPI, VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create and VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete privileges are optional if your cluster does not use the Machine API.

Author: UPI has no relevance here?

Reviewer 3: i think keeping this is fine, but maybe link to the machine API privileges section

Author: Link to the machine API for the purposes of the IPI?

`InventoryService.Tagging.EditCategory`
`InventoryService.Tagging.EditTag`
`Sessions.ValidateSession`
`Read Only`
`StorageProfile.Update`
`StorageProfile.View`

|vSphere vCenter Cluster
|If you intend to create VMs in the cluster root
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Resource.AssignVMToPool`
`Read Only`

|vSphere vCenter Resource Pool
|If you provide an existing resource pool in the `install-config.yaml` file
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Read Only`

|vSphere Datastore
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Datastore.AllocateSpace`
`Datastore.Browse`
`Read Only`

|vSphere Port Group
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Network.Assign`
`Read Only`

|Virtual Machine Folder
|Always
|
[%hardbreaks]
`Read Only`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AddRemoveDevice`
`VirtualMachine.Config.AdvancedConfig`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Annotation`
`VirtualMachine.Config.CPUCount`
`VirtualMachine.Config.DiskExtend`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Memory`
`VirtualMachine.Config.Settings`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOff`
`VirtualMachine.Interact.PowerOn`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.CreateFromExisting`
`VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.Clone`
`VirtualMachine.Provisioning.DeployTemplate`

|vSphere vCenter Datacenter

> |If the installation program creates the virtual machine folder. For UPI, VirtualMachine.Inventory.Create and VirtualMachine.Inventory.Delete privileges are optional if your cluster does not use the Machine API.

Author: This section is irrelivant as it goes against the intent of the API machine table?

Reviewer 3: i think keeping this is fine, but maybe link to the machine API privileges section

Author: Updated for numerous tables.
